Hello in this lecture we're going to talk about links hard links and soft links in Linux.
So in Linux everything is a file which means file is a file and it treats directory as a file as well
although we know the difference but as far as Linux is concerned it is treating.
You can pretty much do all of the commands that you can do on a file you can do on our directory as
well and a file is fundamentally a link to an iPod.
What is it.
I know I know it is a data structure that stores everything about a file.
Apart from his name an actual code.
So a very important interview question also what isn't I.
So I know it's a method that.
Or a structure that stores everything about a file at the site except his name its name and sexual content.
So hardlink is a file that points to the same underlying note as under the file in case you delete one
file it will remove Royland to the.
I note as a symbolic link or soft link is a link to another file in the file system.
Another important difference between the two types of legs is that hard links can only work within the
same file system while symbolic links can go across different file systems in order to create hard lines.
In Linux we will use the and utility.
For example the following command creates a hardlink will do l s dash L to see what we have in the file
system right now.
I have a script called my script so what I'm gonna do I'll do.
Alan my script
at all call it test.
Could
and all do ls dashed out and you can see that it has been created right here as a link right now looking
at the output using ls command are the new file is not indicated as a link.
It is shown as a regular file that employs that.
The test file that we just created.
The link is just another regular executable file that points to the same underlying.
I know as of our original file which was my script.
So now we going to deal with the how to create symbolically so in order to create a symbolic link symbolic
link will use same Ellen utility with that dash as such.
So for example what I have done is remember we had a script called my script.
I had moved it to slash T and P Just to show you that it goes cross file system across file systems
so we going to create a link here.
But actually the link is created for the file which is the design which resides in slushed term.
And right now we own Larry's home directory.
So we're going to do.
LS Alynda asked and then slashed VMP slash my script and then we get a call at let's call it a test
to get our link is created.
And here you can see at the bottom of the screen this is showing an out.
You remember the file types that were discussed the file permissions in one of the previous lectures.
So here tells you right.
And you do it.
LS dash L that this the bottom file is a link and it's link.
Test 2 is actually linked to the file call slash temp slash.
So now you can access it anywhere probably within the system within this server and you can go if you
want to see it.
You can see to test to.
You can see two slashed him slash my skirt and you'll end up getting at the same point.
And suppose once you're done with the link you don't need it anymore.
Instead of it being just a stale net links on where you can go and remove it just like you would remove
any of the file.
So remember our link is test.
And I'm just going to use the remove command which is our m test too.
And when we do our LS dash L is gone.
Tester's.
So that link that we create.
It doesn't show us there and it's gone.